[RC2 Ch01] Intial Content for Introduction (#1624)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_cert/RC2/chapters/chapter01.md

[<< Back](../)

# 1. Introduction
<p align="right"><img src="../figures/bogo_ifo.png" alt="scope" title="Scope" width="35%"/></p>

## Table of Contents

* [1.1 Introduction](#1.1)
  * [1.1.1 Terminology](#1.1)
  * [1.1.2 Relation to other communities](#1.1)
* [1.2 Scope](#1.2)
* [1.3 Principles and Guidelines](#1.3)
  * [1.4.1 Overarching Objectives and Goals](#1.4.1)
* [1.4 Best Practices](#1.4)
* [1.5 Verification methodologies](#1.5)
*	[1.6 Assumptions & Dependencies](#1.6)
*	[1.7 Results Collation & Presentation](#1.7)
* [1.9 Resources & References](#1.9)

## Executive Summary

> The RC2 was established to ensure implementations of the CNTT Reference Architecture 2 (RA2), such as the Reference Implementation 2 (RI2), meet industry driven quality assurance standards for conformance, verification, and validation. For the purpose of this chapter, infrastructure and cloud native network function (CNF) testing will be performed to evaluate **Conformance** (i.e. adherence) to, and demonstrated proficiency with, all aspects of software delivery.  More specifically, Conformance includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Reference Conformance 2 (RC2) was established to ensure implementations of the Reference Architecture 2 (RA2), such as the Reference Implementation 2 (RI2), meet industry driven quality assurance standards for conformance, verification, and validation. For the purpose of this chapter, infrastructure and cloud native network function (CNF) testing will be performed to evaluate **Conformance** (i.e. adherence) to, and demonstrated proficiency with, all aspects of software delivery.  More specifically, Conformance includes:
```

Reviewer: expanding RC2 and removing CNTT is the suggestion

Reviewer 2: @tomkivlin "... driven quality assurance standards for conformance, verification, and validation". One could say that verification and validation are used in evaluating conformance. Maybe, the sentence can end at "conformance"

For conformance not everything is testable -- some may require other methods of verification. The next sentence, can be changed, as in:
"For the purpose of this chapter, cloud infrastructure and cloud native network function (CNF) verification and validation will be performed to evaluate **Conformance** (i.e. adherence) of implementations, such as RI2, with RA2."

Reviewer: Yes makes sense @pgoyal01

 - Verified implementations of infrastructure and CNF match expected design requirements
 - Clearly stated guidelines for test, badging, and lifecycle management
 - Inclusion of Operational run-books for 3rd party supplier instantiation and validations
 - Evidence, through test results, confirming delivered code matches industrial requirements
 - Interoperability testing with Reference CNFs, ensuring integration stability and life-cycle management of the Reference CNF on the target implementation.

> In summary, **Conformance** testing will be performed for **Verification** and **Validation** purposes, defined further as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In summary, **Conformance** will be performed utilising **Verification** and **Validation**, defined further as:
```

Author: I actually like how it was written before better. I think the suggested wording is confusing

Reviewer 2: @xmulligan Verification is not testing.  My understanding is that the determination of "conformant" is as a result of verification and validation (testing). RC-1 has some of these terms and processes already defined.

> - **Verification** will be used to indicate conformance to design requirement specifications. Accomplished with Requirement Traceability and Manifest Reviews to ensure the Kubernetes infrastructure is delivered per implementation specifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Verification** will be used to indicate conformance to requirements/specifications. Accomplished with Requirement Traceability and Manifest Reviews to ensure that the Kubernetes infrastructure is delivered per implementation specifications.
```

> - **Validations** is used to indicate that testing performed confirms the infrastructure and CNF meet the expected, or desired outcome, or behaviour.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Validation** is performed using testing to confirm that the cloud infrastructure and CNF meet the expected, desired outcomes, and behaviours.
```

Author: can you add "or" before desired then I will merge it

Reviewer 2: @xmulligan Done. Thanks

<a name="1.1.1"></a>
### 1.1.1 Terminology

Terminology in this document will follow [CNTT Terminology](../../../tech/glossary.md).

<a name="1.2"></a>
## 1.2 Scope

This document covers the realisation aspects of conformance of both Kubernetes infrastructure and CNFs. The document will cover the following topics:

- Identify in details the Requirement of Test Cases (and mapping them to requirements from The Reference Model and the Kubernetes Based Reference Architecture).
- Analysis of existing community projects.
- Propose an E2E Framework for conformance of Kubernetes infrastructures and CNFs.
- Playbook of instructions, user manuals, steps of how to perform verification and conformance for both infrastructure and CNFs using the proposed E2E Framework.
- Gap analysis to identify where the Gaps are in the industry (tooling, test cases, process, etc).
- Identify development efforts needed to address any gaps identified.

**Not in Scope**
- Functional testing / validation of the application provided by the CNF is outside the scope of this work.
- ONAP is not used in the process flow for infrastructure verifications, or validations.

> - Upgrades to CNFs, and the respective processes of verifying upgrade procedures and validating (testing) the success and compatibility of upgrades is not in scope.

Reviewer: Not necessarily suggesting it is out of scope, but performance testing and performance benchmarks are not mentioned either in scope or out of scope.

Author: Agree, was leaving this out until we have more discussion on #1495

  target, controlled system under test

In addition, respective Entrance criteria is a prerequisite which needs to be
satisfied for infrastructure and CNFs to be considered **Testable**.

**Dependencies** infrastructure and CNFs verification will rely upon test harnesses, test
tools, and test suites provided by upstream projects, including OPNFV and CNF conformance. 
These upstream projects will be reviewed
semi-annually to verify they are still healthy and active projects. Over time,
the projects representing the conformance process may change, but test parity
is required if new test suites are added in place of older, stale projects.

* infrastructure and CNF verifications will be performed against well defined instance types
  consisting of a HW and SW Profile, Configured Options, and Applied Extensions
  (See image.)

![Instance Type](../figures/RC_NFVI_VNF_Instance_Type_25Nov2019.jpg)
<p align="center"><b>Figure:</b> Instance Type</p>

**Infrastructure Instance Type:**
* Standard compute flavours to be tested are defined in RM
  [chapter 4.2.1](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/ref_model/chapters/chapter04.md#4.2.1)

> * Performance profiles come in the form of Basic, Network Intensive, and
>   Compute intensive. Refer to RM
>   [chapter 2.3](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/ref_model/chapters/chapter02.md#2.3)
>   for details on these profiles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Performance profiles come in the form of Basic and Network Intensive. Refer to RM
  [chapter 2.3](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/ref_model/chapters/chapter02.md#2.3)
  for details on these profiles.
```

Reviewer: No Compute Intensive any more.

- Candidate CNF Validation will ensure interoperablity of CNF behaviour on the Kubernetes infrastructure.  Testing ensures CNFs can be spun up, modified, or removed, on the target infrastructure (aka Interoperability).  

<a name="1.1.1"></a>
### 1.1.1 Terminology

Terminology in this document will follow [CNTT Terminology](../../../tech/glossary.md). Relevant testing terminology includes:

<a name="1.2"></a>
## 1.2 Scope

This document covers aspects of CNTT conformance for both Kubernetes based cloud infrastructure and CNFs. The document will cover the following topics:

- Identify in detail the requirements of test-cases (mapped from RA2 and RM)
- Test criteria that shows a certain capability or feature of the system-under-test exists and behaves as expected
- An E2E framework for conformance of Kubernetes infrastructures and CNFs, including specification for conformance test infrastructure (lab environment and tools)
- Analysis to identify where the gaps are in the industry for implementing conformance test objectives (tooling, methods, process, etc).

**Not in Scope**
- Functional testing / validation of the application provided by the CNF is outside the scope of this work.

> - Testing to confirm specific versions of APIs or software components is out of scope of conformance since this is an unambiguous part of a product specification.

Author: ```suggestion
- Testing to confirm specific versions of APIs is out of scope.
```

- Must/shall conformance criteria are testable as pass/fail and ensure requirements are met to ensure minimum thresholds of functional operability and/or performance behavior. This is the focus of RC-2 since this is what will drive a commercially significant badging program.

- Should/may conformance criteria, which may or may not be testable, provide recommendations or best-practices for functional operability and/or performance behavior. These criteria and associated tests can be very useful for developing, evaluating or deploying a cloud infrastructure but are not critical to a commercially significant badging program.

<a name="1.3.1"></a>
### 1.3.1 Overarching Standards and Goals

1. Test Harnesses will be portable, or compatible, across all RAs/Distributions which already conform to standard interfaces and services.
2. Increase portability of CNFs.
3. Decrease operator onboarding time for both Kubernetes infrastructures and CNFs.

<a name="1.4"></a>

> ## 1.4 Best Practices
> 
> The following best practices have been adopted to ensure verification and validation procedures are repeatable with consistent quality in test results and RI conformances:
> 
> * Standardized test methodology / flow, Test Plan, and Test Case Suites
> * Integration with upstream projects and flow (code, docs, cert criteria, etc.)
> * Leverage Network and Service Models, with identified CNF-specific parameters
> * Standardized conformance criteria
> * Add test cases from operators, which operators already tested in their environment
> 

Author: ```suggestion
<!---
Best practices will be defined as we progress
## 1.4 Best Practices

The following best practices have been adopted to ensure verification and validation procedures are repeatable with consistent quality in test results and RI conformances:

* Standardized test methodology / flow, Test Plan, and Test Case Suites
* Integration with upstream projects and flow (code, docs, cert criteria, etc.)
* Leverage Network and Service Models, with identified CNF-specific parameters
* Standardized conformance criteria
* Add test cases from operators, which operators already tested in their environment
--->

```

<a name="1.5"></a>
## 1.5 Verification methodologies

> Perform CNF interoperability verifications against an implementation of CNTT RA2. Upstream projects will define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases to be executed via the OVP Ecosystem.

Author: ```suggestion
Perform verification that ensures CNFs can interoperate with the CNTT RA2 infrastructure. Upstream projects will define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases to be executed via the OPNFV Ecosystem.
```

**Objective**<br>
Specify Kubernetes infrastructure and CNF Conformance aspects using requirements in CNTT RA2 and RM.

Upstream projects define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases which may be used for infrastructure and/or CNF verification and validation. Where feasible existing test frameworks, test methods and tests may also be used be used for conformance testing along with new tests developed where there are gaps.  

Many existing tests currently being considered for RC-2 are functional tests from upstream projects. Reuse of existing test suites is encouraged however OVP 2.0 is not aiming to replace programs such as Certified Kubernetes which is a "CNCF software conformance program that ensures a vendor’s version of Kubernetes supports the required APIs, as do open source community version". 

The focus of conformance is to test the actual behavior of the system with respect to a capability specified in the RM or RA-2. 

**Test Methodology**

> - Verification test to make sure that the Kubernetes services have been deployed and configured correctly

Author: ```suggestion
- Verification and validation tests to make sure that the Kubernetes services have been deployed and configured correctly
```

> - Manifest Verifications (Termed Compliance by CVC) will ensure the infrastructure is compliant, and delivered for testing, with hardware and software profile specifications defined by the RM and RA2

Author: ```suggestion
- Manifest Verification and Validation (Termed Compliance by CVC) will ensure the infrastructure is compliant, and delivered for testing, with hardware and software profile specifications defined by the RM and RA2
```

1. Test Harnesses will be portable, or compatible, across all RAs/Distributions which already conform to standard interfaces and services.
2. Increase portability of CNFs.
3. Decrease operator onboarding time for both Kubernetes infrastructures and CNFs.

<a name="1.4"></a>
## 1.4 Best Practices

The following best practices have been adopted to ensure verification and validation procedures are repeatable with consistent quality in test results and RI conformances:

* Standardized test methodology / flow, Test Plan, and Test Case Suites
* Integration with upstream projects and flow (code, docs, cert criteria, etc.)
* Leverage Network and Service Models, with identified CNF-specific parameters
* Standardized conformance criteria
* Add test cases from operators, which operators already tested in their environment

<a name="1.5"></a>
## 1.5 Verification methodologies

Perform CNF interoperability verifications against an implementation of CNTT RA2. Upstream projects will define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases to be executed via the OVP Ecosystem.

3rd Party test platforms may also be leveraged, if desired.

<a name="1.6"></a>
## 1.6 Assumptions & Dependencies

> **Assumptions** Infrastructure and CNF testing will be considered **Testable** if the follow
> qualifiers are present in a test execution, and subsequent result:

Author: ```suggestion
**Assumptions** Infrastructure and CNF requirements will be considered **Testable** if the following are present in a test execution, and subsequent result:
```

> * Ability to perform conformance testing and/or verification of a system under test to ensure
>   it meets the designs (RM/RA) as specified
> * Ability to control or manipulate a system under test and its respective test environment to support validations
> * Ability to monitor, measure, and report validations performed against a controlled system under test

Author: ```suggestion
* Ability to perform conformance testing and/or verification of a system under test to ensure
  it meets the requirements (RM/RA) as specified
* Ability to control or manipulate a system under test and its respective test environment to support validations
* Ability to monitor, measure, and report validations performed against a controlled system under test
```

[<< Back](../)

# 1. Introduction
<p align="right"><img src="../figures/bogo_ifo.png" alt="scope" title="Scope" width="35%"/></p>

## Table of Contents

* [1.1 Introduction](#1.1)
  * [1.1.1 Terminology](#1.1)
  * [1.1.2 Relation to other communities](#1.1)
* [1.2 Scope](#1.2)
* [1.3 Principles and Guidelines](#1.3)
  * [1.4.1 Overarching Objectives and Goals](#1.4.1)
* [1.4 Best Practices](#1.4)
* [1.5 Verification methodologies](#1.5)
*	[1.6 Assumptions & Dependencies](#1.6)
*	[1.7 Results Collation & Presentation](#1.7)
* [1.9 Resources & References](#1.9)

> ## Executive Summary

Reviewer 2: Typically, we have not had an "Executive Summary" in Chapters. Would this content fit better under Introduction?

Author: This is the same format as RC1 so I'm fine with the structure unless anyone else has a problem with it

The Reference Conformance for the Kubernetes-based workstream (RC2) was established to ensure implementations of the CNTT Reference Architecture 2 (RA2), such as the Reference Implementation 2 (RI2), meet functional and performance requirements specified in RA2 and the CNTT Reference Model (RM). Cloud infrastructure and cloud native network function (CNF) verification and validation will be utilised to evaluate **Conformance** (i.e. adherence) to the RA2 and RM specifications. Conformance scope includes:

 - Test criteria, with requirements traceability, to validate that the cloud infrastructure implementation meets the expected capabilities specified in RA-2 and that the CNFs consume compliant cloud infrastructure resources

>  - Verify, with requirements traceability, that the installation cookbooks (manifests) are in conformance with the RA-2 specifications (for example, software versions, plugins, and configurations).

Reviewer 3: validation of "installation cookbooks" should refer to RI2. For a given vendor implementation, we should not refer to the installation cookbooks, but just to the system under test - as described in the first bullet. 
```suggestion
 - Verify, with requirements traceability, that the installation cookbooks (manifests) of RI-2 are in conformance with the RA-2 specifications (for example, software versions, plugins, and configurations).
```

 - Guidelines for conformance testing evaluation criteria used for CNTT related infrastructure badging programs

>  - Guidelines for conformance testing environments and tools for enabling infrastructure vendor or 3rd party conformance testing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Guidelines for processes, environments and tools for enabling conformance testing
```

In summary, **Conformance** testing will be performed as part of cloud infrastructure and CNF lifecycle testing which includes **Verification** and **Validation**, defined further as:

> - **Verification** confirms design requirement specifications are met using Requirement Traceability and Manifest Reviews to ensure the cloud infrastructure or CNF is delivered per implementation specifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Verification** is performed using reviews (e.g., manifests) to ensure that the cloud infrastructure or CNF is delivered as per implementation specifications.
```

**Objective**<br>
Specify Kubernetes infrastructure and CNF Conformance aspects using requirements in CNTT RA2 and RM.

Upstream projects define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases which may be used for infrastructure and/or CNF verification and validation. Where feasible existing test frameworks, test methods and tests may also be used be used for conformance testing along with new tests developed where there are gaps.  

Many existing tests currently being considered for RC-2 are functional tests from upstream projects. Reuse of existing test suites is encouraged however OVP 2.0 is not aiming to replace programs such as Certified Kubernetes which is a "CNCF software conformance program that ensures a vendor’s version of Kubernetes supports the required APIs, as do open source community version". 

The focus of conformance is to test the actual behavior of the system with respect to a capability specified in the RM or RA-2. 

**Test Methodology**

> - Verification test to make sure that the Kubernetes services have been deployed and configured correctly

Reviewer 3: Why only verification testing and not also validation testing? In practice, we will run automated tests to check that the services behave as expected.

Author: added

> - Manifest Verifications (Termed Compliance by CVC) will ensure the infrastructure is compliant, and delivered for testing, with hardware and software profile specifications defined by the RM and RA2

Reviewer 3: same as above: why only verification testing and not validation testing?

Author: added

- Candidate CNF Validation will ensure interoperablity of CNF behaviour on the Kubernetes infrastructure.  Testing ensures CNFs can be spun up, modified, or removed, on the target infrastructure (aka Interoperability).  

<a name="1.1.1"></a>
### 1.1.1 Terminology

Terminology in this document will follow [CNTT Terminology](../../../tech/glossary.md). Relevant testing terminology includes:

<a name="1.2"></a>
## 1.2 Scope

This document covers aspects of CNTT conformance for both Kubernetes based cloud infrastructure and CNFs. The document will cover the following topics:

> - Identify in details the requirements of test-cases (mapped from RA2 and RM)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Identify in detail the requirements of test-cases (mapped from RA2 and RM)
```

- Test criteria that shows a certain capability or feature of the system-under-test exists and behaves as expected
- An E2E framework for conformance of Kubernetes infrastructures and CNFs, including specification for conformance test infrastructure (lab environment and tools)
- Analysis to identify where the gaps are in the industry for implementing conformance test objectives (tooling, methods, process, etc).

**Not in Scope**
- Functional testing / validation of the application provided by the CNF is outside the scope of this work.

> - Testing to confirm specific versions of APIs or software components is out of scope of conformance since this is an unambiguous part of a product specification.

Reviewer 2: this is confusing

Author: which part? can you make a suggestion?

Reviewer 4: Clarification requested on:
> Testing to confirm specific versions of APIs or software components is out of scope of conformance since this is an unambiguous part of a product specification.

Reviewer 4: The goal for the RC2 conformance is verifying the actual behaviour and capabilities of a running platform.

Versions are an indication that a behaviour or capability may be there, but it needs to be actually tested.

> - ONAP is not used in the process flow for infrastructure verifications, or validations.

Reviewer 2: Do you want to refer specifically to ONAP (need reference link) or generic VNFM/NFVO?

Author: add the generic reference

> - ONAP is not used in the process flow for infrastructure verifications, or validations.

Author: ```suggestion
- VNFM/NFVO, like ONAP, is not used in the process flow for infrastructure verifications, or validations.
```

- Upgrades to CNFs, and the respective processes of verifying upgrade procedures and validating (testing) the success and compatibility of upgrades is not in scope.

<a name="1.3"></a>
## 1.3 Principles and Guidelines

The objectives of the Reference Conformance for cloud infrastrucute is to verify implementations against the reference architecture which satisfies infrastructure needs for CNFs.

The objectives of the Reference Conformance for CNFs is to verify CNF implementations consume resources and behave as expected against the reference architecture.

These core principles will guide RC2 deliverables:

> - RC-2 requirements are derived from RM and RA-2 which specify infrastructure capabilities which include compute, memory, storage resource capabilities, performance optimization capabilities, monitoring capabilities.

Reviewer 2: use of multiple "which"
```suggestion
- RC-2 requirements are derived from RM and RA-2 which specify infrastructure capabilities including compute, memory, and storage resource capabilities, performance optimization capabilities, and monitoring capabilities.
```

- Requirements in the RM and RAs that are performance related may not have minimum perfromance criteria identified but where feasible will have tests with metrics to show relevant capabilities are present and working as expected.

> - Must/shall conformance criteria are testable as pass/fail and ensure requirement are met to ensure minimum thresholds of functional operability and/or performance behavior. This is the focus of RC-2 since this is what will drive a commercially significant badging program.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Must/shall conformance criteria are testable as pass/fail and ensure requirements are met to ensure minimum thresholds of functional operability and/or performance behavior. This is the focus of RC-2 since this is what will drive a commercially significant badging program.
```

> - Should/may conformance criteria may be testable or non-testable and provide recommendations or best-practices for functional operability and/or performance behavior. These criteria and associated tests can be very useful for developing, evaluating or deploying a cloud infrastructure but are not critical to a commercially significant badging program.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Should/may conformance criteria, may or may not be testable, provide recommendations or best-practices for functional operability and/or performance behavior. These criteria and associated tests can be very useful for developing, evaluating or deploying a cloud infrastructure but are not critical to a commercially significant badging program.
```

<a name="1.3.1"></a>
### 1.3.1 Overarching Standards and Goals

1. Test Harnesses will be portable, or compatible, across all RAs/Distributions which already conform to standard interfaces and services.

> 2. Increase probability of CNFs.

Reviewer 3: portability? :-)
```suggestion
2. Increase portability of CNFs.
```

3. Decrease operator onboarding time for both Kubernetes infrastructures and CNFs.

<a name="1.4"></a>
## 1.4 Best Practices

> The following best practices have been adopted to ensure verification and validation procedures are repeatable with consistent quality in test results and RI conformances:

Reviewer 2: how do the items listed ensure "repeatable with consistent quality"?

* Standardized test methodology / flow, Test Plan, and Test Case Suites
* Integration with upstream projects and flow (code, docs, cert criteria, etc.)

> * Leverage Network and Service Models, with identified CNF-specific parameters

Reviewer 2: not clear as to what is being stated and how is that a best practice

* Standardized conformance criteria
* Add test cases from operators, which operators already tested in their environment

<a name="1.5"></a>
## 1.5 Verification methodologies

> Perform CNF interoperability verifications against an implementation of CNTT RA2. Upstream projects will define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases to be executed via the OVP Ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: are we really testing cnf interoperability -- are we going to test different combination of cnf's?

3rd Party test platforms may also be leveraged, if desired.

<a name="1.6"></a>
## 1.6 Assumptions & Dependencies

> **Assumptions** Infrastructure and CNF testing will be considered **Testable** if the follow

Reviewer 3: Maybe it is just me, but this entire paragraph is mostly incomprehensible to me. I am aware it is taken from RC1 (so, no offense, Bill), but the language is confusing at best

- What is meant by "Infra and CNF **testing** is **testable**"? Shouldn't _requirements_ be testable?
- How does "_qualifiers_ in a test execution" relate to the following list? The list does not read as a list of concise qualifiers, but it is highly confusing and not clear to me.

Below, I attempted to simplify the language to make it more comprehensible. Curious to find out if I missed the point here.

Author: I tried to make it better. Let me know what you think

qualifiers are present in a test execution, and subsequent result:

> * Ability to perform Conformance, or Verification of Artifacts to ensure

Reviewer 2: I can understand RI being conformant with RM and RA. But this sentence seems to suggest that RM and RA will also be subject to conformance verification -- against what?

> * Ability to perform Conformance, or Verification of Artifacts to ensure
>   designs (RM/RA/RI) are delivered per specification

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Ability to perform conformance testing and/or verification of a system under test to ensure
  it meets the designs (RM/RA) as specified
```

> * Ability to Control (or manipulate), manifestations of RM/RA/RI for the

Reviewer 2: Aren't RI the manifestation of RM and RA?

The sentence is split into 3

> * Ability to Control (or manipulate), manifestations of RM/RA/RI for the
>   purposes to adjust the test environment, and respective cases, scenarios, and
>   apparatus, to support actual test validations

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Ability to control or manipulate a system under test and its respective test environment to support validations
```

> * Ability to monitor, measure, and report, Validations performed against a
>   target, controlled system under test

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Ability to monitor, measure, and report validations performed against a controlled system under test
```

[<< Back](../)

# 1. Introduction
<p align="right"><img src="../figures/bogo_ifo.png" alt="scope" title="Scope" width="35%"/></p>

## Table of Contents

* [1.1 Introduction](#1.1)

> * [1.2 CNTT RC2 End User Requirements](#1.2)

Author: ```suggestion
* [1.2 RC2 End User Requirements](#1.2)
```

* [1.3 Scope](#1.3)
* [1.4 Guidlines](#1.4)

> * [1.5 Verification Methodologies](#1.5)

Author: ```suggestion
* [1.5 Conformance Methodologies](#1.5)
```

 - Verify, with requirements traceability, that the installation cookbooks (manifests) of RI-2 are in conformance with the RA-2 specifications (for example, software versions, plugins, and configurations)
 - Guidelines for processes, environments, and tools for enabling conformance testing

In summary, **Conformance** testing will be performed as part of cloud infrastructure and workload lifecycle testing which includes **Verification** and **Validation**, defined further as:

- **Verification** is performed using reviews (e.g., manifests) to ensure that the cloud infrastructure or workload is delivered as per implementation specifications.
- **Validation** confirms the infrastructure or workload meet the expected or desired behaviour.

**All Terms utilized throughout this chapter are intended to align with LFN Complinace and Verification Committee (CVC) definitions, and their use through CVC documentation, guidelines, and standards.**

<a name="1.1"></a>
## 1.1 Introduction

> **Chapter Purpose**<br>

Author: thanks, fixed below with @tomkivlin commit

> **Chapter Purpose**<br>

Reviewer: Agree with @gkunz - this chapter doesn't include the traceability, for example?

```suggestion
**Document Purpose**<br>
```

This chapter includes tracability from requirements to test cases and a test case execution framework to ensure Kubernetes infrastructure meets the design, feature, and capability expectations of the Reference Model (RM) and RA2. Ultimately, RC2 will reduce the amount of time and cost it takes each operator to on-board and maintain cloud infrastructure and CNFs.

<a name="1.2"></a>

> ## 1.2 CNTT RC2 End User Requirements

Reviewer: I think we're avoiding use of CNTT in the docs
```suggestion
## 1.2 RC2 End User Requirements
```

> Telcom service providers / operators are the primary intended audience for CNTT RC-2 results. Specifically those selecting infrastructure and network function technologies to use in their network. The RC2 result artefact(s) should be clear and provide confidence to the service provider that the test results meet the requirements *they have.*

Reviewer: Avoiding use of CNTT and consistent use of RC2 (as opposed to RC-2)
```suggestion
Telcom service providers / operators are the primary intended audience for RC2 results. Specifically those selecting infrastructure and network function technologies to use in their network. The RC2 result artefact(s) should be clear and provide confidence to the service provider that the test results meet the requirements *they have.*
```

### Operator/SP Test Result Requirements
* Clickable links from test cases to requirements
* Pass, Fail, or Skipped for every test
* Reason for failures
* Reason for skipping
* Format supporting clickable links (eg. HTML)
* Provide a stable set of point-in-time requirements and tests to achieve conformance
* Testing tools allow users to select between validation of mandatory and optional requirements
* Enable clear tracability with versioning to know which requirements have and haven’t been covered and track changes over time
* Tests must be available to run locally
* Testing tools must produce machine-readable result formats

### Vendor Test Result Requirements
* Clear mapping between requirements and test results
* Enable clear tracability to know which requirements have and haven’t been covered and track changes over time
* Failures should provide additional content to inform the user where or how the requirement was violated without having to read the test
* Expected preconditions and environment requirements for any test tooling must be defined

<a name="1.3"></a>
## 1.3 Scope

> This document covers aspects of CNTT conformance for both Kubernetes based cloud infrastructure and workloads. The document will cover the following topics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document covers aspects of conformance for both Kubernetes based cloud infrastructure and workloads. The document will cover the following topics:
```

- Identify in detail the requirements of test-cases (mapped from RA2 and RM)
- Test criteria that shows a certain capability or feature of the system-under-test exists and behaves as expected
- An E2E framework for conformance of Kubernetes infrastructures and workloads, including specification for conformance test infrastructure (lab environment and tools)
- Analysis to identify where the gaps are in the industry for implementing conformance test objectives (tooling, methods, process, etc)

**Not in Scope**
- Functional testing / validation of the application provided by the workload is outside the scope of this work

> - Testing to confirm specific versions of APIs is out of scope

Author: ```suggestion
- Testing to confirm anything not in RM or RA2 requirements
```

> - Testing to confirm specific versions of APIs is out of scope

Reviewer: Query on this one - I get we don't want to test for ***a*** specific API version, but given the RA2 spec about being within the k8s API policy of n-2 we should be testing the API to check the version used is within that range?

Author: good point, not sure exactly how to phrase this though. Do you have any ideas or should I bring it up in the next meeting?

Reviewer: Worth bringing it up (I can't attend I'm afraid - off on holiday).  My suggestion would be to remove it, or replace with a generic comment saying testing for anything not included in RM/RA2 isn't included.  The example I gave of testing for n-2 versions is covered by the in-scope comment `Identify in detail the requirements of test-cases (mapped from RA2 and RM)` so it's whether we want something to cover in more detail what we don't test.

- VNFM/NFVO, like ONAP, is not used in the process flow for infrastructure verifications or validations
- Upgrades to workloads, and the respective processes of verifying upgrade procedures and validating (testing) the success and compatibility of upgrades is not in scope

<a name="1.4"></a>
## 1.4 Guidelines

The objectives of the Reference Conformance for cloud infrastrucute is to verify implementations against the reference architecture which satisfies infrastructure needs for workloads. The objectives of the Reference Conformance for workloads is to verify workload implementations consume resources and behave as expected against the reference architecture.

These guidlines will drive RC2 deliverables:

- RC2 requirements are completely derived from RM and RA2 which specify infrastructure capabilities including compute, memory, storage, resource capabilities, performance optimization capabilities, and monitoring capabilities.

- Requirements in the RM and RAs that are performance related may not have minimum perfromance criteria identified but where feasible will have tests with metrics to show relevant capabilities are present and working as expected.

> - Must/shall conformance criteria are testable as pass/fail and ensure requirements are met to ensure minimum thresholds of functional operability and/or performance behavior. This is the focus of RC2 since this is what will drive a commercially significant badging program.

Reviewer 5: ... pass/fail **and/or reporting of quantitative test results,** and ensure ...

> - Must/shall conformance criteria are testable as pass/fail and ensure requirements are met to ensure minimum thresholds of functional operability and/or performance behavior. This is the focus of RC2 since this is what will drive a commercially significant badging program.

Author: ```suggestion
- Must/shall conformance criteria are testable as pass/fail and/or reporting of quantitative test results. This will ensure infrastructures and workloads meet minimum thresholds of functional operability and/or performance behavior. This is the focus of RC2 since it is what will drive a commercially significant badging program.
```

- Should/may conformance criteria, which may or may not be testable, provide recommendations or best-practices for functional operability and/or performance behavior. These criteria and associated tests can be very useful for developing, evaluating or deploying a cloud infrastructure but are not critical to a commercially significant badging program.

<a name="1.5"></a>

> ## 1.5 Verification Methodologies

Reviewer 3: According to the definitions above, verification is based on reviews and validation is based on runtime testing - if my understanding is correct. The text below refers largely to the test cases, so shouldn't this be either validation methodologies or - more high level - conformance?

> ## 1.5 Verification Methodologies

Author: ```suggestion
## 1.5 Conformance Methodologies
```

> The RC2 test suite will provide validation to ensure workloads can interoperate with the RA2 infrastructure. Upstream projects will define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases to be executed. 3rd Party test platforms may also be leveraged, if desired.

Reviewer 5: ... with the RA2**-Conformant** infrastructure.

> The RC2 test suite will provide validation to ensure workloads can interoperate with the RA2 infrastructure. Upstream projects will define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases to be executed. 3rd Party test platforms may also be leveraged, if desired.

Author: ```suggestion
The RC2 test suite will provide validation to ensure workloads can interoperate with the RA2 conformant infrastructure. Upstream projects will define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases to be executed. 3rd Party test platforms may also be leveraged if desired.
```

> The RC2 test suit will provide verification to ensure workloads can interoperate with the CNTT RA2 infrastructure. Upstream projects will define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases to be executed. 3rd Party test platforms may also be leveraged, if desired.

Reviewer 3: According to the definitions above, verification is based on reviews and validation is based on runtime testing.

```suggestion
The RC2 test suite will provide validation to ensure workloads can interoperate with the CNTT RA2 infrastructure. Upstream projects will define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases to be executed. 3rd Party test platforms may also be leveraged, if desired.
```

> The RC2 test suit will provide verification to ensure workloads can interoperate with the CNTT RA2 infrastructure. Upstream projects will define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases to be executed. 3rd Party test platforms may also be leveraged, if desired.

Author: ```suggestion
The RC2 test suit will provide verification and validation to ensure workloads can interoperate with the RA2 infrastructure. Upstream projects will define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases to be executed. 3rd Party test platforms may also be leveraged if desired.
```

> The RC2 test suite will provide validation to ensure workloads can interoperate with the CNTT RA2 infrastructure. Upstream projects will define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases to be executed. 3rd Party test platforms may also be leveraged, if desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RC2 test suite will provide validation to ensure workloads can interoperate with the RA2 infrastructure. Upstream projects will define features/capabilities, test scenarios, and test cases to be executed. 3rd Party test platforms may also be leveraged, if desired.
```

> **Dependencies** infrastructure and workload verification will rely upon test harnesses, test tools, and test suites provided by upstream projects, including OPNFV and CNF conformance. These upstream projects will be reviewed semi-annually to verify they are still healthy and active projects. Over time, the projects representing the conformance process may change, but test parity is required if new test suites are added in place of older, stale projects.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Dependencies** infrastructure and workload validation will rely upon test harnesses, test tools, and test suites provided by upstream projects, including OPNFV and CNF conformance. These upstream projects will be reviewed semi-annually to verify they are still healthy and active projects. Over time, the projects representing the conformance process may change, but test parity is required if new test suites are added in place of older, stale projects.
```

## Executive Summary

> The RC2 was established to ensure implementations of the CNTT Reference Architecture 2 (RA2), such as the Reference Implementation 2 (RI2), meet functional and performance requirements derived from RA2 and the CNTT Reference Model (RM). For the purpose of this chapter, cloud infrastructure and cloud native network function (CNF) testing will be specified to evaluate **Conformance** (i.e. adherence) to, and demonstrated proficiency with, all aspects of hardware and software delivery that is within the scope of CNTT. Conformance scope includes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Reference Conformance for the Kubernetes-based workstream (RC2) was established to ensure implementations of the CNTT Reference Architecture 2 (RA2), such as the Reference Implementation 2 (RI2), meet functional and performance requirements specified in RA2 and the CNTT Reference Model (RM). Cloud infrastructure and cloud native network function (CNF) verification and validation will be utilised to evaluate **Conformance** (i.e. adherence) to the Ra-2 and RM specifications. Conformance scope includes:
```

Reviewer 2: Justification
1. I think Conformance is the theme of RC-2 and not just Chapter 1
2. proficiency -- "a high degree of competence or skill; expertise" -- is inapplicable

>  - Test criteria with requirements tracebility ensuring implementations of cloud infrastructure match expected capabilites exemplified by CNTT Reference Implementations and CNFs match match expected capabilites for consuming compliant cloud infrastructure resources

Reviewer 2: "exemplified" is a "typical example"

Author: is there an edit here or just a comment?

Reviewer 2: @xmulligan Yes, as I think "the Reference Implementations" are examples of the "implementations of cloud infrastructure" and not of "expected capabilities".

there is typo: "match match"

Reviewer 2: @xmulligan Please ignore as you have already made changes. Thanks

>  - Test criteria with requirements tracebility ensuring implementations of cloud infrastructure match expected capabilites exemplified by CNTT Reference Implementations and CNFs match match expected capabilites for consuming compliant cloud infrastructure resources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Test criteria, with requirements traceability, to validate that the cloud infrastructure implementation meets the expected capabilities specified in RA-2 and that the CNFs consume compliant cloud infrastructure resources
 - Verify, with requirements traceability, that the installation cookbooks (manifests) are in conformance with the RA-2 specifications (for example, software versions, plugins, and configurations).
```
